---

layout: blog_post
type: blog
teaserlatest: blog_loop_latest/boston-1-thumb.jpg
teaserlist: blog_loop_latest/boston-1.jpg
title: FAB11 - Boston, August 2015
meta: "Last August, Fab Lab Barcelona participated of FAB11: the 11th Fab Lab Conference and Symposium, in Boston.Throughout a whole week, the conference gathered hundreds of attendees from all around the world coming from Fab Labs, Hacker and Maker spaces, Schools and Universities, Community Colleges, private and public Institutions, Companies, etc."
author: Luciana Asinari
date: 14/09/2015
category: video

---

<br><iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/133676785" width="725" height="483" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

Fab 11 // Boston
1
Last August, Fab Lab Barcelona participated of FAB11: the 11th Fab Lab Conference and Symposium, in Boston.
Throughout a whole week, the conference gathered hundreds of attendees from all around the world coming from Fab Labs, Hacker and Maker spaces, Schools and Universities, Community Colleges, private and public Institutions, Companies, etc.
During the morning meetings, we learned How to make Robots, Movies, Life, Policy and Cities. We learned and shared knowledge during the afternoon workshops and catched up with some good all friends.


2
Making Robots


3


Workshops
We honoured the Fab Lab nº001: the SETC, and the amazing soul behind it: Mel King.


4


Haakon Karlsen, Mel King & Simone Amber
5

Mel King & Walter!
 
We saw some of our alumni grow old and present their labs…and even a candidacy for Fab13!

6


IaaC | Fab Lab Barcelona Alumni


7


MAA graduate Robert Garita
During the Symposium we got the chance to see the these amazing sessions: How To Make Design, in which Vicente Guallart presented his visions for the future Barcelona, next to speakers such as Hiroya Tanaka, Skylar Tibbits, J. Meejin Yoon, Markus Kayser and Kelly Dobson; How To Make Business, with Kamau Gachigi, Ed Baafi, Max Lobovsky, Ayah Beir and Raffi Krikorian; How To Make Tools, in which Tomas Diez presented his experience as Smart Citizen developer next to speakers such as Fiore Basile, Matt Keeter, Ara Knaian, Nadya Peek and Amon Millner; How To Make Research, with Will Langford, Kenny Cheung, Manu Prakash, Rehmi Post, Rich DeVaul and Yael Maguire; How To Make Community with Ted Hung, Heloisa Neves, Ohad Meyuhas, Blair Evans, Reginald Bryant and Eric Wilhelm; and How to Make Education with Paulo Blikstein, Abubakari Adam, David Sengeh, Makeda Stephenson, Dina El Zanfaly and Sherry Lassiter.


8


IaaC Founder Vicente Guallart


9


Fab Lab Director Tomas Diez
 
During the Symposium the Fab Awards Ceremony also took place, in which 4 out of 66 projects were awarded: In3-A low cost Incubator (by Alejandro Escario, a Fab Academy 2015 graduate) won the MedxMakers medical application; 3rd prize went for Circular Knitic (by Marc Canet and Varvara Guljajeva); 2nd prize was given to Risha Laser Cutter (won by a IaaC Alumni, Moushira El) and the 1st prize was for EMOsilla – Fab Lat Kids (a project by Ilaria la Manna – IaaC Alumni -, Alex García and another IaaC and Fab Academy Bcn alumni Alejandra Diaz de Leon). The ceremony closed with the FAB12 handoff to Shenzhen and a Celebration of the last edition of Fab Academy.


10


EmoSilla prize, accepted by IAAC Alumni Alejandra Diaz de Leon and Illaria Lamanna


11


Shenzhen Fab16
Friday closed the week with talks about the state of the Fab lab Network, a report on tools, businesses, education community; the announcement of the Fab13 host: Fab Lab Santiago, in Chile; and the Fab Academy Graduation Ceremony.


12




13


14


Fab Academy 2015 Graduation
 
We celebrated an amazing week in the amazing JFK library.


15


And for the weekend, the Fab Festival offered us a taste of what the rest of the community is doing in the maker scene in Boston and around the area. We also had the chance to enjoy the Fab Textiles show, curated by Anastasia Pistofidou with pieces from all over the world; and the mayor’s panel on “Making Cities”.


16

Fab Textiles showcase
The cherry? the crazy race to design and build a Fab Submarine in 48 hours!


17


Fab Submarine
Once at home, and after all we’ve learned and seen during this amazing days, we still believe in Neil Gershenfeld’s statement: “The power of Digital Fabrication is social, not technical”.

18

More pictures and videos here http://www.fab11.org/photos-and-video/



<br>
####FAB CITY REFERENCES

* - A New Productive Ecosystem (SPA)
* - Global transitions, Fab Labs and Fab Cities
* - Fab City
* - Fab City in Barcelona
* - Fab Labs in the City: TEDx talk by Tomas Diez 
* - From Fab Labs to Fab Cities
* - Fab10 by Domus
* - Democracy and Medieval High-Tech Cities – Interview with Tomas Diez 10 years of Fab Labs, 90 years of Fab Cities


<br>
####RAW TEXT

Check the  raw text of the script:

<br>
**90 words**

The first thing that made us human was the ability to develop tools and organise the way we live.

We occupied caves, and developed hunting tools in order to sustain life.
We later developed agriculture tools to stop the nomad life, and start settlements where climate and natural resources improved food production;
we domesticated animals; we created more complex tools; we started to accumulate surplus and then started to create markets,exchange knowledge faster thanks to the printing press, ending the medieval age.

This one finishes with the renaissance.

history about construction until the industrial revolution. Show how as pavement we lived, and how we evolve construction techniques thanks to new technology, the importance of agriculture to create more stable living. We invented the inhabitation of the world in constructed houses.

<br>
**180 words**

Machines entered into our life, changing the way we produce. The industrial revolution creates a new way to approach accumulation and capital. At first glance workers burned the mills at the textile factories, later these factories became the main attractor for people to move from the rural areas to cities; urban problems started to grow and then urbanism appeared as a science to organise, design and manage cities. The medieval walls of cities break, new cities are founded around new industries.

Housing is developed in a standardised way, the house as a machine, thanks to Ford we enter into the standardised world (the assembly line),the Bauhaus connects Design and industry,wireless communications make knowledge to travel faster,the military industry (thanks to the world) brings us more and more technology (plastics, microwave, computers, medicine, fast food).

We enter into the modern and contemporary world, electricity brings a new idea of urbanity and infrastructure. This one ends with the break of the Wall and the appearance of Internet (both are connected since Internet was developed during the cold war).

show the effect of industrialisation in architecture and construction. House as a machine, the repetition of housing development, the consumer society.

<br>
**150 words**

During the 90’s computers and Internet become widespread, we start the foundations of the digital world in which we live today. We have been embedding connected computers in every other aspect of our life. Facebook, twitter, youtube, have turned us into producers of digital content, we can broadcast content as never before. 

Today the world is ruled by computers: our cars, planes, refrigerators or microwave ovens are ran by simple or complex computers, which now are getting connected thanks to the Internet. 3D printing appears in the 80’s but mainly in advanced industries and research centres, it becomes accesible and popular when the Rep Rap project lower the access barrier to this technology, in an open source way, the same as Arduino or Fab Labs: new tools are providing ways for people to innovate and create, and to establish a more fluid connection between the digital and the physical world.

the rise of the digital technologies from the 60 and 70s. Computers bringing new tools, digital fabrication constructing a new way of making and building, Internet as a tool to share and collaborate. Digital life

<br>
**136 words**

Present – Future: Distributed manufacturing through digital fabrication is bringing back production to cities, materials are handled locally, the raise of the circular and spiral economies. We grow things introducing codes into materials, objects can assembly and disassembly themselves. The world is a whole connected network, not even using any type of antenna but a new language that communicates everything with everything (machines, animals, plants, humans, the planet and universe). There is no trash. this one should end with a new challenge, not sure which yet.
the future of construction is being invented today around digital fabrication technologies and connected knowledge.
the future of construction is going to be created today, is not only 3d printable houses or smart cities. In the future we will grow houses, will program materials, will inhabit space, will be all connected by an ubiquitous Internet in things, materials, people, everywhere. We will not use machines to make things, is the end of the machine era.
move from the consumerist society to a productive one…